# Mutant

Currently, this project is based on mutant.
This project will follow each commit in mutant git history. 
After rewrite mutant, this project will research on Milvus and VSearch,
or focus on Indexing optimize based on Faiss learning.


## Not expected things
mutant use lots of third-party tools. Such as Sentry, PostHog and Clickhouse, which 
I'm not familiar. I think it's not a first priority in this time. I'll follow the code, 
but not verify things with those third-party things.

This repository is a project that first following the mutant's git network history, then think to imporve it.
So may the first thousands commits will be the same as Chorma. The only diff is change the name.

## Development

Set up a virtual environment and install the project's requirements
and dev requirements:

```
python3 -m venv venv      # Only need to do this once
source venv/bin/activate  # Do this each time you use a new shell for the project
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements_dev.txt
```

To run tests, run `bin/test`. This will run the test suite inside a
docker compose cluster, with the database available, and clean up when complete.

To run the server locally, in development mode, run `uvicorn mutant_server:app --reload`

## Docker

To build the docker image locally, run `bin/build`.

The version tag of the build is generated by the `bin/version` script,
which uses the `setuptools_scm` library. For full documentation, see
the
[documentation for setuptools_scm](https://github.com/pypa/setuptools_scm/).

In brief, version numbers are generated as follows:

- If the current git head is tagged, the version number is exactly the
  tag (e.g, `0.0.1`).
- If the the current git head is a clean checkout, but is not tagged,
  the version number is a patch version increment of the most recent
  tag, plus `devN` where N is the number of commits since the most
  recent tag. For example, if there have been 5 commits since the
  `0.0.1` tag, the generated version will be `0.0.2-dev5`.
- If the current head is not a clean checkout, a `-dirty` local
  version will be appended to the version number. For example,
  `0.0.2-dev5-dirty`.

To run use `docker images` to see what containers and tags you have available:
```
docker run -p 8000:8000 ghcr.io/mutant/mutant-server:<tag name -- eg 0.0.2-dirty>>
```

This will expose the internal app at `localhost:8000`


